# CS-360
For this project, I developed an event tracking app. The app aimed to create a simple calendar that was approachable for all users. Whether you were a stay-at-home mom managing appointments, or you were a business person who had little time for all of the extra features of mainstream calendars like Google Calendar. The app utilized a login screen to keep events private for the user. Once logged in, the app shows a month view of the calendar. Days that have an event are shown with a red dot. The user can tap the day and view all events for the day. Additionally, the user is able to edit events, add events, and delete events. This approach follows CRUD standards where data can be created, read, updated, and deleted. In addition to the simple capabilities of the app, I included a purple and teal color scheme. My inspiration was the green and black color scheme of Spotify. It's simple, but nice to look at, and draws the user's attention to important areas.  
I approached coding the app with a plan and coded each piece one piece at a time. I ensured it worked before moving on to the next piece. When determining the order, I started with UI because it made testing easier. I was able to test the UI by making sure it loaded properly. Once I was able to go through all of the screens, I started to develop the logic of the app. I did my best to develop the logic in the order that made the most sense. For instance, if I knew one function would call upon another, I tried to develop that function first. This prevented me from getting caught up on erroneous warnings telling me that it's calling on something that doesn't exist.
I used the emulator function of Android Studio to test the app. With each bit of logic that I coded, I would load the emulator and test how it was working. I would tweak whatever wasn't working and then retest. When the app was done being coded, I applied the same process to testing the whole app. I pretended I was an end user and I created, deleted, and updated events for my calendar. I also adjusted the current date on the emulator to test how the app tracked the current date and transitioned between months. I also attempted to log in with erroneous accounts and false passwords to ensure that the login system actually kept data secure. This process revealed two things to me. First, bugs will show up everywhere, even when you're done developing a piece of the app. Second, I really like the troubleshooting aspect of app development. A challenge that I had to overcome was determining which third-party calendar functions I should use. The scope and time frame of this project pointed me towards using a third-party calendar function rather than developing my own. I prefer to just develop my own code and not rely on someone else's code, but I learned that it's industry standard for small, simple apps to do this and for larger, more mainstream apps to develop their own primary functions. Nonetheless, it was a learning process for me because each of the different calendar imports handled things differently. I had to learn how to handle the one I chose. 
I was particularly successful in demonstrating my knowledge of user and data validation. When I first started developing a login system, it became clear that data was shared across all users. I had to overcome this.
